At first He explained about cosmology. He explained about how physics hierarchical structure is and then told about Unified Field Theory.
The base of all infinite dynamism is absolute silence (pure existence). Compared infinitism to a rubber band and explained UFT and all the natural fields and forces are just different types of vibrations these rubber band produces.

Gave example of number system

Meditation helps you to gain deeper perspective of your life, it helps you to achieve absolute oneness (pure self). 
Samadhi -> absolute meditated state (4th state of human counciousnessness) (Hypometabolic physiological state)
It is distinct from the material world.
"Yoga is the complete setteling of the activity of the mind" -Yogasutra
It is out inner subjectivity and our inner counciousness.
Changes blood pressure which inturn reduces stress and helps in heart diseses.
By transcendal meditation we can reduce stress effectively rather than sleep.

transcending and brain development:
train your mind for meditation by giving a taste of it regurlarly
brain functions in a complete intrigated way while transducing which translates to orderly thinking.
It increases IQ, alertness, creativity, mental efficiency. - done by orderly thinking.

It can be done by anyone.
"Use it or loose it" - property of brain

Stress reduces our judgement, planning, moral reasoning.
Types of stress: acute stress (ptsd) caused by drastic trauma.
ADHD causes misfunction of balanced and integrated brain functioning.
Pre-frontol brain control your preception

even after 1 TM your whole mind will be rebooted.

While trancending: 
awareness is expanded and focus on one particular thing reduced

councience can't be experienced by you it expereincec itself

In ancient times medation was to live in oneness and not experiencing stress relief

Enlightment:
It helps in "Enlightment" Nirvikalpa Samadhi
In ordanary terms it is a established state and respectfully and uninterruptedly cultivated for long time.
It works even during sleep
Self Realization, Liberaion

Growing will to achieve anything taking reference with the book The secret
Showed the correspondance of spiritual literature with science
Vaikhari: articulated thoughts
